RESEARCH ENGINEER (profess. & kin.) development engineer.
Conducts research in a field or specialization of an engineering
discipline to discover facts, or performs research directed toward in-
vestigation, evaluation, and application of known engineering theories
and principles. Plans and conducts, or directs engineering personnel
performing, complex engineering experiments to test, prove, or modify
theoretical propositions on basis of research findings and experiences of
others researching in related technological areas. Evaluates findings to
develop new concepts, products, equipment, or processes; or to develop
applications of findings to new uses. Prepares technical reports for use
by engineering or management personnel for long- and short-range
planning, or for use by sales engineering personnel in sales or technical
services activities. Classifications are made according to discipline.

SALES ENGINEER (profess. & kin.) marketing engineer.
Sells chemical, mechanical, electro-mechanical, electrical, electronic
equipment and supplies or services requiring knowledge of engineering
and cost effectiveness: Calls on management representatives, such as
engineers, architects, or other professional and technical personnel at
commercial, industrial, and other establishments in attempt to convince
prospective client of desirability and practicability of products or ser-
vices offered. Reviews blueprints, plans, and other customer documents
to develop and prepare cost estimates or projected increases in produc-
tion from client's use of proposed equipment or services. Draws up: or
proposes changes in equipment, processes, or use of materials or ser-
vices which would result in cost reduction or improvement in opera-
tions. Provides technical services to clients relating to use, operation,
and maintenance of equipment. May draw up sales or service contract
for products or services. May provide technical training to employees
of client. Usually specializes in sale of one or more closely related
group of products or types of services, such as electrical or electronic
equipment or systems, industrial machinery, processing equipment or
systems, air conditioning and refrigeration equipment, electric power
equipment, or chemical goods.

SALES REPRESENTATIVE (ret. tr.; whole. tr.) sales agent; sales associate.
Sells products to business and industrial establishments or individual
for manufacturer or distributor at sales office, store, showroom, or
customer's place of business, utilizing knowledge of product sold: Com-
piles lists of prospective customers for use as sales leads, based on in-
formation from newspapers, business directories, and other sources.
Travels throughout assigned territory to call on regular and prospective
customers to solicit orders or talks with customers on sales floor or by
phone. Displays or demonstrates product, using samples or catalog, and
emphasizes salable features. Quotes prices and credit terms and
prepares sales contracts for orders obtained. Estimates date of delivery
to customer, based on knowledge of own firm’s production and delivery
schedules. Prepares reports of business transactions and keeps expense
accounts. Classifications are made according to products sold as SALES
REPRESENTATIVE, FOOD PRODUCTS (whole. tr.); SALES
REPRESENTATIVE, INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY (whole. tr.).

SALESPERSON (ret. tr.; whole. tr.)
Sells merchandise to individuals in store or showroom, utilizing
knowledge of products sold: Greets customer on sales floor and ascer-
tains make, type, and quality of merchandise desired. Displays merchan-
dise, suggests sclections that meet customer’s needs, and emphasizes
selling points of article, such as quality and utility. Prepares sales slip
or sales contract. Receives payment or obtains credit authorization.
Places new merchandise on display. May wrap merchandise for
customer. May take inventory of stock. May requisition merchandise
from stockroom. May visit customer’s home by appointment to sell
merchandise on shop-at-home basis. Classifications are made according
to products sold as SALESPERSON, AUTOMOBILE ACCESSORIES
(ret. tr.; whole. tr.); SALESPERSON, BOOKS (ret. tr.); SALESPER-
SON, SURGICAL APPLIANCES (ret. tr.).

SEWING-MACHINE OPERATOR, AUTOMATIC (any ind.)
Tends one or more sewing machines that automatically join, rein-
force, or decorate material or fabricated articles: Places spool of thread
on spindle and draws thread through guides, tensions, and eye of nee-
dle. Inserts bobbin into shuttle and draws thread through slot in shuttle
wall, or draws thread through guides and looper eyes. May pull boxes
of flatfolded material into feeding position or place roll of material on
brackets at entry end of machine. May thread material through feed
rollers and guides. Depresses pedal or moves lever to raise presser foot;
positions article parts or material under needle, using edges, seams, or
markings on fabric as guides, and lowers presser foot. Presses pedal or
button to start machine that stops as material runs out or thread breaks.
May cut material, using scissors, when specified length of cloth has
been sewn. Observes sewing operation to detect defective stitching,
breaks in thread, or machine malfunction. Rethreads machine, replaces
defective or broken needles, using pliers, or notifies SEWING-
MACHINE REPAIRER (any ind.) of machine malfunction. May
remove rolls or trucks of material from discharge end of machine. May
select supplies, such as fasteners or thread, according to specifications
or color of fabric. May oil machine. May cut excess thread, using scis-
sors or blade attachment on machine. May tend machine equipped with
blade attachment that automatically trims selvages. May tend multiple-
needle machine that joins two or more layers of cloth to reinforce
them. Classifications are usually made according to function of machine
as FASTENER-SEWING-MACHINE OPERATOR (any _ind.);
HEMMER, AUTOMATIC (house  furn.); SERGING-MACHINE
OPERATOR, AUTOMATIC (any ind.); TACKING-MACHINE OPERATOR (any ind.).

SEWING-MACHINE OPERATOR, REGULAR EQUIPMENT
(any ind.)
Operates various sewing machines to join parts of fabricated articles
or garments: Places spool of thread on spindle of machine and draws
thread through machine guides, tensions, and eye of needle. Inserts
bobbin into shuttle and draws thread through slot in shuttle wall, or
draws thread through guide and looper eye. Presses knee lever,
depresses pedal, or moves hand lever to raise presser foot or spread
feed cups. Positions parts to be joined under presser foot and needle
and lowers presser foot. Starts, stops, and controls speed of machine,
using pedal or knee lever. Guides parts under needle, using fingers and
hands, and following edges, seams, guides on machine bed, or markings
on part. Observes stitching to detect defects and notifies supervisor or
SEWING-MACHINE REPAIRER (any ind.) when defects are caused
by machine malfunction. May select sewing supplies, such as binding,
braid, cord, piping, tape, thread, or welt, according to specifications or
color of material. May cut excess material or thread, using blade at-
tached to machine or scissors. May oil machine, change needles, or
secure modifying attachments to machine. Classifications are usually
made according to type of machine, garment part sewn, product
fabricated, or modifying attachment on machine.

SUPERVISOR (any ind.) boss; chief; head; leader; manager;
overlooker; overseer; principal; section chief; section leader.
Supervises and coordinates activities of workers engaged in one, or
more occupations: Studies production schedules and estimates worker-
hour requirements for completion of job assignment. Interprets com-
pany policies to workers and enforces safety regulations. Interprets
specifications, blueprints, and job orders to workers, and assigns duties.
Establishes or adjusts work procedures to meet production schedules,
using knowledge of capacities of machines and equipment. Recom-
mends measures to improve production methods, equipment per-
formance, and quality of product, and suggests changes in working con-
ditions and use of equipment to increase efficiency of shop, department,
or work crew. Analyzes and resolves work problems, or assists workers
in solving work problems. Initiates or suggests plans to motivate wor-
kers to achieve work goals. Recommends or initiates personnel actions,
such as promotions, transfers, discharges, and disciplinary measures.
May train new workers. Maintains time and production records. May
estimate, requisition, and inspect materials. May confer with other SU-
PERVISORS (any ind.) to coordinate activities of individual depart-
ments. May confer with workers’ representatives to resolve grievances.
May set up machines and equipment. When supervising workers en-
gaged chiefly in one occupation or craft, is required to be adept in the
activities of the workers supervised. When supervising workers engaged
in several occupations, is required to possess general knowledge of the
activities involved. Classifications are made according to process in-
volved, craft of workers supervised, product manufactured, or accord-
ing to industry in which work occurs. Classifications are made accord-
ing to workers supervised.

SUPERVISOR (clerical) section chief; section head.
Supervises and coordinates activities of clerical workers: Determines
work procedures, prepares work schedules, and expedites workflow. !s-
sues written and oral instructions. Assigns duties and examines work for
exactness, neatness, and conformance to policies and procedures. Stu-
dies and standardizes procedures to improve efficiency of subordinates.
Maintains harmony among workers and resolves grievances. Prepares
composite reports from individual reports of subordinates. Adjusts er-
rors and complaints. May perform or assist subordinates in performing
duties. May keep time and personnel records, and oversee preparation
of payroils. May hire, train, and discharge workers. Classifications are
made according to type of work or functions of unit supervised, as SU-
PERVISOR, COMPUTER OPERATIONS (clerical); SUPERVISOR,
TELEPHONE CLERKS (tel. & tel.); TYPING SECTION CHIEF (clerical).

