APPRENTICE (any ind.)
A worker who learns, according to written or oral contractual agree-
ment, a recognized skilled craft or trade requiring one or more years
of on-the-job training through job experience supplemented by related
instruction, prior to being considered a qualified skilled worker. High
school or vocational school education is often a prerequisite for entry
into an apprenticeship program. Provisions of apprenticeship agreement
regularly include length of apprenticeship; a progressive scale of wages;
work processes to be taught; and amount of instruction in subjects re-
lated to the craft or trade, such as characteristics of materials used,
physics, mathematics, estimating, and blueprint reading. Apprenticea-
bility of a particular craft or trade is best evidenced by its acceptability
for registration as a trade by a State apprenticeship agency or the
«cderal Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training. Generally, where em-
ployees are represented by a union, apprenticeship programs come
under the guidance of joint apprenticeship committees composed of
representatives of the employers or the employer association and
representatives of the employees. These committees may determine
need for apprentices in a locality and establish minimum apprenticeship
standards of education, experience, and training. In instances where
committees do not exist, apprenticeship agreement is made between ap-
prentice and employer, or an employer group. The title, APPRENTICE,
is often loosely used as a synonym for beginner, HELPER (any ind.),
or TRAINEE (any ind.). This practice is technically incorrect and leads
to confusion in determining what is meant. Typical classifications for
apprentices are BLACKSMITH APPRENTICE (forging); MACHINIST
APPRENTICE (mach. shop); and PLUMBER APPRENTICE (const. ).

CLEANER (any ind.) I
Maintains premises of commercial, institutional, or industrial
establishments, office buildings, hotels and motels, apartment houses,
retirement homes, nursing homes, hospitals, schools, or similar
establishments in clean and orderly condition, performing the following
duties: Cleans rooms, hallways, lobbies, lounges, restrooms, corridors,
elevators, stairways, and locker rooms and other work areas. Sweeps,
scrubs, waxes, and polishes floors, using brooms and mops and powered
scrubbing and waxing machines. Cleans rugs, carpets, upholstered furni-
ture, and draperies, using vacuum cleaner. Dusts furniture and equip-
ment. Polishes metalwork, such as fixtures and fittings. Washes walls,
ceiling, and woodwork. Washes windows, door panels, and sills. Empties
wastebaskets, and empties and cleans ashtrays. Transports trash and
waste to disposal area. Replenishes bathroom supplies. Replaces light
bulbs. Classifications are made according to type of establishment in
which work is performed. Typical classifications are CLEANER, COM-
MERCIAL OR INSTITUTIONAL (any ind.); CLEANER, HOSPITAL
(medical ser.); CLEANER, HOUSEKEEPING (any ind.); CLEANER,
INDUSTRIAL (any ind.); HOUSECLEANER (hotel & rest.).

DESIGN ENGINEER, FACILITIES (profess. & kin.)
Applies engineering principles to design, modify, or develop facilities,
testing, machines, equipment, or processes used in processing or manu-
facturing products: Analyzes product or equipment specifications and
performance requirements to determine designs which can be produced
by existing manufacturing or processing facilities and methods. Analyzes
engineering proposals, process requirements, and related technical data
pertaining to industrial machinery and equipment design. Determines
feasibility of designing new plant equipment or modifying existing facilities considering costs, available space, time limitations, company
planning, and other technical and economic factors. Provides technical
information concerning manufacturing or processing techniques, materials, properties, and process advantages and limitations which affect long
range plant and product engineering planning. Compiles and analyzes
operational, test, and research data to establish performance standards
for newly designed or modified equipment. Studies engineering and
technical publications to keep abreast of technological changes and
developments in industry. Classifications are made according to type of
process or specialization.

DESIGN ENGINEER, PRODUCTS (profess. & kin.)
Conducts analytical studies on engineering proposals to develop
design for products, such as engines, equipment, machines, associated
and subsystems components, and aerospace structures, utilizing and ap-
plying engineering principles, research data, and proposed product
specifications. Analyzes data to determine feasibility of product
proposal. Confers with research personnel to clarify or resolve problems
and develops design. Prepares or directs preparation of product or
system layout and detailed drawings and schematics. Directs and coor-
dinates manufacturing or building of prototype product or system. Plans
and develops experimental test programs. Analyzes test data and reports
to determine if design meets functional and performance specifications.
Confers with research and other engineering personnel and prepares
design modifications as required. Evaluates engineering test results for
possible application to development of systems or other uses. Design
engineering personnel are classified according to discipline.

DRAFTER (profess. & kin.)
Prepares clear, complete, and accurate working plans and detail
drawings from rough or detailed sketches or notes for engineering or
manufacturing purposes, according to specified dimensions: Makes final
sketch of proposed drawing, checking dimension of parts, materials to
be used, relation of one part to another, and relation of various parts
to whole structure or project. Makes any adjustments or changes neces-
sary or desired. Inks in lines and letters on pencil drawings as required.
Exercises manual skill in manipulation of triangle, T-square, and other
drafting tools. Draws charts for representation of statistical data. Draws
finished designs from sketches. Utilizes knowledge of various machines,
engineering practices, mathematics, building materials, and other physi-
cal sciences to complete drawings. Classifications are made according
to type of drafting as DRAFTER, ARCHITECTURAL (profess. &
kin.); DRAFTER, ELECTRICAL (profess. & kin.).

HELPER (any ind.)
A worker who assists another worker, usually of a higher level of
competence or expertness, by performing a variety of duties, such as
furnishing another worker with materials, tools, and supplies; cleaning
work area, machines, and equipment; feeding or offbearing machines;
holding materials or tools; and performing other routine duties. A
HELPER (any ind.) may learn a trade but does so without an agree-
ment with employer that such is the purpose of their relationship. Con-
sequently, the title HELPER (any ind.) is sometimes used as synonym
for APPRENTICE (any ind.), a practice that is incorrect technically. A
worker whose duties are limited or restricted to one type of activity,
such as moving materials from one department to another, feeding
machines, removing products from conveyors or machines, or cleaning
machines or work areas is not technically a HELPER (any ind.) and
is classified according to duties performed as MATERIAL HANDLER
(any ind.); MACHINE CLEANER (any ind.); CLEANER, INDUSTRI-
AL (any ind.). A worker who performs a variety of duties to assist
another worker is a HELPER (any ind.) technically and is classified ac-
cording to worker assisted as BRICKLAYER HELPER (const.); DRY-
CLEANER HELPER (clean., dye., & press.).

